.. _Engagement_Content:

#################################
Engagement with Course Content
#################################

How many of the enrolled students are actually keeping up with the work? What
are they doing? Content engagement data helps you monitor how many students are
active in your course and what they are doing.

********************************************
Gaining Insight into Student Engagement
********************************************

EdX Insights delivers data about student engagement with the content of your
course in these ways:

* Chart: **Weekly Student Engagement**

  The markers on this chart represent the number of unique students who
  interacted with course content. The graph plots three categories of
  engagement: an overall total for and students who completed any activity, and
  totals for students who clicked play for any course video and students who
  submitted an answer for a problem. Each total is for activity completed in a
  one week period.

* Count: **Active Students Last Week** 
  
  The total number of students who, at least once, visited a page in the
  course. 

* Count: **Watched a Video Last Week** 
  
  The total number of students who played at least one of the course videos.

* Count: **Tried a Problem Last Week** 
  
  The total number of students who submitted an answer for at least one problem (for a specified set of problem types).

* Report: **Content Engagement Breakdown** 

  The weekly breakdown of student engagement with course content is available for review or download.

  You can download the Content Engagement Breakdown report in comma-separated value format: click
  **Download CSV**.

See the :ref:`Reference` chapter for a detailed description of each value.

***************************************************************
Analytics in Action: Interpreting Data About Student Engagement 
***************************************************************

Most online courses experience periodic drops in student activity that can be
closely correlated to specific events: problem due dates. Teams can forecast
these changes in engagement, implement strategies to mitigate them, and use 
weekly activity counts to monitor their reach.

.. Instead of comparing weekly student engagement counts to the total course enrollment, many teams define a new baseline for assessing student engagement after the first assignment is due.

.. not sure where to put this ^ 

==================================================
Measuring the Effectiveness of Bulk Email
==================================================

The first time that Professor Ana Bell ran 6.00.1x for MITx, she noticed that
students had a real pain point around homework deadlines. Although reminders
were posted in three different parts of the course content, students just
didn't convert the published due date and time from UTC to their local time
zones. After the first assignment due date for the Fall 2013 run, Professor
Bell fielded almost 80 individual discussion posts from students who had
experienced some time zone confusion.

For the Spring 2014 run of the course, Professor Bell decided to use the bulk
email feature on the Instructor Dashboard to send reminders to her students.
She sent a message a few hours before every course deadline, and even included
a link to a UTC conversion website. After the first assignment, she noticed a
significant decrease in the number of discussion posts relating to
misunderstood deadlines, down to about 20.

Beyond the approximate data that she got from comparing discussion posts,
Professor Bell also compared the completion rates for the two runs. From a
completion rate of about 6% for the Fall 2013 run of 6.00.1x, the completion
rate went up to 7% in Spring 2014. While other variables may have contributed
to this increase, Professor Bell believes that the "ongoing heartbeat‚Äù of her
weekly messages acted not only to solve the specific problem of missed
deadlines, but also as a more general motivator, getting students to keep
visiting the course and looking at the material.

.. Introduction to Computer Science and Programming Using Python

==================================================
An Immediate Appeal, then Ongoing Encouragement
==================================================

To set expectations and encourage a minimum time commitment, one professor
included a one-minute video message in the very first course component.
Speaking directly to the camera, the professor acknowledged that the material
could be daunting. He then made a very specific request: that students complete
not only the first homework assignment, but the entire first month of the
course, before they made a decision to stop.

The professor followed this initial video with a weekly message to the
students. Although the course has only run once, its completion and
certification rates were higher than average for the subject. In the course
exit survey, students indicated that the video messages had a significant
motivating effect.

.. Melanie checking with MIT to make sure this ^ is ok to use

.. "When you see your first homework assignment, some of you may feel somewhat intimidated. That's normal... However, it would be the wrong thing to stop the course at this point. At least stay in for one month before you make that tragic decision." - Professor Walter Lewin, September 5, 2013

.. Gauging the Effectiveness of Your Investment

.. Many teams develop a student engagement strategy for their courses, planning the timing and content of messages to students and using a variety of delivery channels. Typically, when social media channels are used, messaging is delivered daily or even more frequently. Bulk email messages are usually sent less frequently, and have longer content. By comparing the levels of student engagement week over week, you can evaluate and compare the results of these efforts.