.. _Engagement_Content:

#################################
Engagement with Course Content
#################################

How many of the enrolled students are actually doing the course work? What are
they doing? Content engagement data helps you monitor how many students are
active in your course and what they are doing. EdX Insights delivers data about
student engagement with the content of your course in these ways:

* Graph: **TBD**
  
  %%??

* Count: **Active Students Last Week** 
  
  The total number of students who, at least once, visited a page in the
  course, played a video, contributed to a discussion topic, or clicked
  **Check** for a problem. 

  %%% what else? "other course activities" in B&R guide 

* Count: **Watched a Video Last Week** 
  
  The total number of students who played at least one of the course videos.

* Count: **Tried a Problem Last Week** 
  
  The total number of students who submitted an answer for at least one problem (for a specified set of problem types).

* Report: **TBD** 

.. the downloadable report will have ? a title and some columns

  You can download the %% report in comma-separated value format: click
  **Download CSV**.

See the :ref:`Reference` chapter for a detailed description of each value.

***************************************************************
Practical Magic: Interpreting Data About Student Engagement 
****************************************************************

Most MOOCs experience a significant drop in the number of students interacting
with any aspect of the content after the first assignment is due. Instead of
using the total enrollment count, many teams define a new baseline number for
assessing student engagement after the first (or first several) problem sets
are complete.

.. not sure where to put this ^ 

============================
A Heartfelt Appeal
============================

Most online courses experience periodic drops in student engagement that can be
closely correlated to specific events: problem due dates. Teams can forecast
these changes in engagement, implement strategies to mitigate them, and use the
counts for engagement with course content to monitor their reach.

One professor included an appeal to students to set expectations and encourage
a minimum time commitment in the very first course component. In his video
message he addressed students directly, saying, "When you see your first
homework assignment, some of you may feel somewhat intimidated. That's
normal... However, it would be the wrong thing to stop the course at this
point. At least stay in for one month before you make that tragic decision."

- Professor Walter Lewin, September 5, 2013

============================================
Gauging the Effectiveness of Your Investment
============================================

Many teams develop a student engagement strategy for their courses, planning
the timing and content of messages to students and using a variety of delivery
channels. Typically, when social media channels are used, messaging is
delivered daily or even more frequently. Bulk email messages are usually sent
less frequently, and have longer content. By comparing the levels of student
engagement week over week, you can evaluate and compare the results of these
efforts.
