.. _Enrollment_Geography:

#############################
Enrollment Geography
#############################

Where are my students from? For a MOOC, enrollment geography data helps you
understand the global reach of your course. EdX Insights delivers enrollment
data in these ways:

* Map: **Geographic Distribution** 

  The map uses a color scale to indicate the percentage of total enrollment
  represented by students from each country. The darker the shade, the higher
  the enrollment percentage. You can view the enrollment total for each
  country: move your mouse over the map.

* Count: **Total Countries Represented**
  
  This metric reports the number of countries in which one or more enrolled
  students are located.

* Percentage: **Most Prevalent Country** 
  
  This statistic indicates the country with the highest percentage of enrolled
  students.

* Percentage: **2nd Most Prevalent Country** 

  This statistic indicates the country with the second highest percentage of
  enrolled students.

* Percentage: **3rd Most Prevalent Country** 

  This statistic indicates the coutnry with the highest percentage of enrolled
  students.

* Report: **Country Enrollment Breakdown** 

.. the downloadable report will have country/total/percentage 

  To download the Country Enrollment Breakdown report in a comma-separated
  value file, click **Download CSV**.

See the :ref:`Reference` chapter for a detailed description of each value.

*********************************************************
Analytics in Action: Interpreting Geographic Distribution
*********************************************************

=========================
Now Open 'til Midnight
=========================

As their course start date approached, a course team realized that they had
almost as many students enrolled from India as from their own country, the
United States. To provide the same experience to students participating across
time zones, the team adjusted their schedules to provide additional discussion
moderattion coverage.

Another team that saw a similar geographic trend in course enrollments before
their course started added a Hindi translation of the course introduction.

.. is that right Victor? I think that was your story

=======================================================
Investing Based on Demonstrated Need, Not Predictions
=======================================================

Delivering content, especially videos, to students in every country in the
world means meeting differing technological requirements. Instead of working to
make every course video available to a global audience while they designed
their course and gathered content, one team took a wait-and-see approach. In
the months leading up to the course start date, the team tracked the number of
students who, based on location, could only access videos if they were hosted
on a third-party site. When a predefined minimum had shown interest by
enrolling, the team was able to justify the cost of creating an alternate video
delivery channel.

============================
Fostering Community
============================

When students enroll in a course and click through from the edX dashboard, the
Course Info page is the first page that they see. One professor included
enrollment data from previous iterations of his course to welcome students into
the course community. Showcasing the size and geograhic reach of the course can
help capture the interest of new students and escalate enthusiasm.

.. "I'd like to share some important details with you about our community. Since its launch in March 2013, HeroesX has enrolled over 60,000 individuals from over 170 countries, and this third session is growing every day. ...HeroesX is special because it brings together individual participants working independently from all over the world". - Gregory Nagy, September 2, 2014 (hold off on specifically quoting per Michele)