.. _Enrollment_Geography:

#############################
Enrollment Geography
#############################

Where are my students from? For a MOOC, enrollment geography data helps you
understand the global reach of your course. 

********************************************
Gaining Insight into Student Location
********************************************

EdX Insights delivers data about student location in these ways:

* Map: **Geographic Distribution** 

  The map uses a color scale to indicate the percentage of total enrollment
  represented by students from each country. The darker the shade, the higher
  the enrollment percentage. You can view the enrollment total for each
  country: move your mouse over the map.

* Count: **Total Countries Represented**
  
  This metric reports the number of countries in which one or more 
  students are located.

* Percentage: **Most Prevalent Country** 
  
  This statistic indicates the country with the highest percentage of students.

* Percentage: **2nd Most Prevalent Country** 

  This statistic indicates the country with the second highest percentage of
  students.

* Percentage: **3rd Most Prevalent Country** 

  This statistic indicates the coutnry with the highest percentage of students.

* Report: **Country Enrollment Breakdown** 

.. the downloadable report will have country/total/percentage 

  To download the Country Enrollment Breakdown report in a comma-separated
  value file, click **Download CSV**.

See the :ref:`Reference` for a detailed description of how location values are determined.

*********************************************************
Analytics in Action: Interpreting Geographic Distribution
*********************************************************

=========================
Now Open 'til Midnight
=========================

To make their courses more welcoming to a geographically and culturally diverse
student body, team members for MOOCs have changed their courses in a variety of
ways.

* A team in the United States realized that they had almost as many students
  from India enrolled as from their own country. To provide the same experience
  to students participating across more than a nine-hour time difference, the
  team adjusted their schedules so that discussion moderation coverage covered
  more hours in each day.

* After he learned the top few countries where students in his Circuits and
  Electronics course were located, Professor Anant Agarwal made a quick change
  to some of the homework problems. Instead of using first names that are only
  common among American and European students in examples, he sprinkled in
  names that would be familiar to students in India, Colombia, and China.

  Professor Agarwal also realized that it made sense to move a due date that
  fell on a major festival day in India.

.. * Another team provided a Hindi translation of their course introduction.

=======================================================
Investing Based on Demonstrated Need, Not Predictions
=======================================================

Delivering content, especially videos, to students in every country in the
world means meeting differing technological requirements. Instead of working to
make every video available to a global audience before teh course started, one
team took more of a wait-and-see approach. In the months leading up to the
course start date, the team tracked the number of students who, based on
location, could only access videos if they were hosted on a third-party site.
When a predefined minimum number of students from the affected country showed
interest by enrolling, the team could justify the cost of creating the
alternate video delivery channel.

============================
Fostering Community
============================

When students enroll in a course and click through from the edX dashboard, they
see the Course Info page first. One professor welcomed students into the course
community by including enrollment data from previous iterations of his course.
By showcasing the size and geograhic reach of the course in this way, the
professor used the "wow" factor of his MOOC to capture interest and escalate
enthusiasm.

.. ^ is there a way to make this stronger?

.. "I'd like to share some important details with you about our community. Since its launch in March 2013, HeroesX has enrolled over 60,000 individuals from over 170 countries, and this third session is growing every day. ...HeroesX is special because it brings together individual participants working independently from all over the world". - Gregory Nagy, September 2, 2014 (hold off on specifically quoting per Michele)