.. _Enrollment_Activity:

#############################
Enrollment Activity
#############################

How many students are enrolled in my course? Enrollment activity data helps you
monitor how many people are enrolling in your course and how that number
changes over time. 

.. note:: Enrollment activity data is updated once each week to include data 
 collected through Sunday night at 23:59:59 UTC.

********************************************
Gaining Insight into Course Enrollment
********************************************

EdX Insights delivers enrollment activity data in these ways:

* Chart: **Enrollment Activity** 

  Each marker on this chart represents the total number of enrolled course
  participants on a particular date. To see the total enrollment count for each
  day, move your cursor over the chart to display a tip. The graph includes
  data for the 60 days leading up to the date of the last data update. For
  enrollment data for every day, starting with the course creation date, see
  the **Enrollment Breakdown** report.

* Count: **Current Enrollment**
  
  This metric reports the total number of students who enrolled in the course,
  less any students who unenrolled.

* Delta: **Enrollments This Week** 
  
  This metric reports the difference between the enrollment total at the
  beginning of the last one week update period and at the end of the update
  period.

* Report: **Enrollment Breakdown** 

  The daily total enrollment count, through the date of the last update, is
  available for review or download.

  To download the Enrollment Breakdown report in a comma-separated value
  file, click **Download CSV**.

.. info on why you might want to download, what to do with csv after

See the :ref:`Reference` for a detailed description of how enrollment values are determined. 

*******************************************************
Analytics in Action: Interpreting Changes in Enrollment
*******************************************************

===========================
The Colbert "Bump"
===========================

Enrollment for courses on the edX.org site opens several months before the
course start date. This strategy typically results in gradually increasing
enrollments over time, as site visitors find a course, sign up for it, and tell
their colleagues, friends, and family about it. This strategy also gives teams
the opportunity to watch for larger changes in enrollment, the temporary
"spikes" that can occur after particular events, such as marketing campaigns
for the course or for edX in general.

Such events can be expected or unexpected: teams for all edX courses saw
enrollments jump in the summer of 2013, after edX CEO Anant Agarwal was
interviewed on the July 24 edition of *The Colbert Report*, a satirical late-
night comedy show hosted by Stephen Colbert. 

.. what is the actionable insight for this story? It's so great, I'd like to use it, but is there a way to make it showcase a decision or change? Maybe use it to lead in to "the students you have aren't necessarily reflective of the students you *could* have"? (courtesy of John Hess)

===========================
Latecomers Welcome
===========================

After their course started, a team expected that enrollment would level off and
then begin a gradual decline. While they did see a decrease in the number of
enrollments each week, they also noticed that occasional small spikes in
enrollment continued to occur on certain days, even several weeks into the
course. To give these recently-enrolled students time to catch up, the team
chose to adjust the course to be more self-paced. They shifted due dates in
unreleased units later, and extended the end date to keep course content open
longer.
